# Stated - rating experiment/Empirical data modeling

This package contains tools to develop empirical models that describe the impact of safety perceptions on route/mode choices. These models can be used to calibrate the Perceived Safety Choices model considering the attitudes, the safety perceptions and in general the mobility culture existing in each case. 

The data are collected based on a survey form developed by Tzouras et al. (2020). The form comprises a methodological tool to take into account subjective variables related to users' perceptions in discrete choice modeling. In essense, two experiments have been combined in a single one: a) a rating experiment to measure a subjective variable (e.g., perceived safety) using 5-point of 7-point Likert Scale and a stated preferences experiment to collect route/mode choices per traffic situation. The survey design is based on a double fractional factorial design (orthogonal table); scenarios are matched in such a way that correlations among independent variables of both experiments are minimized. The survey form is given below:

The modeling process includes an ordinal logistic regression with random variables to model users' perceptions and multinomial logit or mixed logit models to describe travel behavior based on users' perceptions. In the first modeling process, [Rchoice](https://github.com/cran/Rchoice) package is used; [PandasBiogeme](https://github.com/michelbierlaire/biogeme) is utilized for discrete choice modeling.
